{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg10000\uc1\adeff31507\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033\themelang1033\themelangfe0\themelangcs0{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f5\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica;}{\flomajor\f31500\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}{\fdbmajor\f31501\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhimajor\f31502\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}{\fbimajor\f31503\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\flominor\f31504\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fdbminor\f31505\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhiminor\f31506\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503050406030204}Cambria;}{\fbiminor\f31507\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f5\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica;}{\flomajor\f31500\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}{\fdbmajor\f31501\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhimajor\f31502\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}{\fbimajor\f31503\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\flominor\f31504\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fdbminor\f31505\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhiminor\f31506\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503050406030204}Cambria;}{\fbiminor\f31507\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\*\defchp }{\*\defpap \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 }\noqfpromote {\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af31507\afs24\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af31507\afs24\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1786711}{\mmathPr\mmathFont0\mbrkBin0\mbrkBinSub0\msmallFrac0\mdispDef0\mlMargin0\mrMargin0\mwrapRight0\mintLim0\mnaryLim0}{\info{\operator Donald Mastronarde}{\creatim\yr2009\mo9\dy23\hr13\min17}{\revtim\yr2009\mo9\dy23\hr13\min28}{\version2}{\edmins10}{\nofpages12}{\nofwords3359}{\nofchars19151}{\nofcharsws23518}{\vern33025}{\*\saveprevpict}}{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 http://schemas.microsoft.com/office/word/2003/wordml}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0\ltrsect \ftnbj\aenddoc\trackmoves0\trackformatting1\donotembedsysfont0\relyonvml0\donotembedlingdata1\grfdocevents0\validatexml0\showplaceholdtext0\ignoremixedcontent0\saveinvalidxml0\showxmlerrors0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale200\rsidroot1786711 \fet0{\*\wgrffmtfilter 013f}\ilfomacatclnup0\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af31507\afs24\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 ABOUT NEW ATHENA UNICODE v. 3.5}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 02}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711  (September 2009)\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par CONTENTS:\par I. Introduction\par II. License\par III. Installation\par IV. Revision History\par V. Acknowledgments\par \par I. Introduction\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 New Athena Unicode is a freeware multilingual font distributed by the American Philological Association. It follows the latest version of the Unicode standard and includes characters for English and Western European languages, polytonic Greek, Coptic, Old Italic, and Demotic Egyptian (and Arabic) transliteration, as well as metrical symbols and other characters used by classical scholars.\par \par For a fuller revision history see the later section of this document.\par \par New Athena Unicode is a "smart font": it contains OpenType ligature instructions that allow the display of well-formed precomposed glyphs in response to input of two or more Unicode code points. This capability allows the use of combinations like alpha with macron and acute and smooth breathing depending only on official Unicode code points. Ligatures are also used for correct placement of dots (U+0323) under Greek characters or strokes over Coptic characters. The same capability is helpful or necessary for some characters needed for papyrological transliterations of Demotic Egyptian or Arabic. Proper display of such features requires use of modern applications that support them. For information on compatible applications see:\par \par http://apagreekkeys.org/compatibility.html\par \par Since version 3.4 of January 2009 the American Philological Association has made New Athena Unicode available under an Open Font License (see next section).\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par \par II. License\par \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li700\ri720\nowidctlpar\tx0\wrapdefault\faauto\rin720\lin700\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs28\insrsid1786711 The TrueType version of Athena font and the TrueType version of New Athena Unicode font are made available to all as freeware to facilitate communication on the internet. They may be used in digital or print publication without further permission from the APA. They may not be altered or redistributed without permission.\par \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 For Version 3.4 (and later) of New Athena Unicode the APA has adopted an Open Font License, which is even more expansive than the language above: see the license that accompanies the download or http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&id=OFL.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 For complete license details applying to other APA fonts and GreekKeys inputs/keyboards, consult the GreekKeys web site (http://apagreekkeys.org/). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 III. Installation\par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 Before installing v.3.5 of the font, be sure to remove the previous version, if you have been using New Athena Unicode before. The earlier versions may be named newathu.ttf or New Athena Unicode.dfont. In recent versions of Mac OS X you can open the FontBook application and remove the old version and then add the new version.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par \par For users of MS Office 2008 for Mac OS X, it may also be helpful to delete the file ~/Library/Preferences/Microsoft/Office 2008/Office Font Cache (12) and restart your computer after removing one version of the font and installing the new one.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par \par New Athena Unicode is provided only in the .ttf format, which works the same on Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux.\par \par Windows: Open the Control Panel "Fonts" and use the command "Add Font..." (for fuller instructions see http://apagreekkeys.org/installActivate.html).\par \par Mac OS X: In recent versions of OS X, simply double-click on the font file and FontBook will open and offer you a button for installing the font. FontBook will also indicate whether you have multiple copies of the font installed. Or, for manual installation, copy the font to either the Fonts folder of the Library folder inside your Home, or the Fonts folder of the top level Library folder of your startup disk or partition (for fuller instructions see http://}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 apagreekkeys.org/installActivate.html#macfont}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 ). If an application in which you want to use the newly-installed font is running, quit it and relaunch it.  \par \par PUA Incompatibilities\par \par In some installations of earlier versions of Mac OS X, the font LiHei Pro may be present in the font collection available to the system. This font contains conflicts with the PUA code points of precomposed characters like epsilon with circumflex. If you try to enter such a character with the GreekKeys Unicode input are by using the Character Palette, an Asian character may appear instead of the character you want. To have access to the conflicting Greek characters, you should open the application FontBook (which is installed by default in OS X), then under Collection click on All Fonts. Scroll through the list in the Font column to LiHei Pro and select it. Then under the File menu choose the command Remove Font. Then restart, and the conflict should be gone. (An alternative may be to choose the command Disable Font under the Edit menu.)\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par \par IV. Revision History\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1786711 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 September 2009: 3.502\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711\charrsid1786711 --}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 four }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711\charrsid1786711 glyp}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 h}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711\charrsid1786711 s added}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711  for eta with breve, eta with macron, omega with breve, omega with macron (to help with an unusual papyrological text), and OpenType ligature definitions added. These can be displayed only when ligatures are turned on (MS Word 2008); to enter them, you must type the vowel normally and then input U+0304 (combining macron) or U+0306 (combining breve) immediately after the vowel (you can do this by switching to Unicode Hex input and typing 0304 or 0306 while continuously holding down the option key). There is no direct method for this with GreekKeys Unicode input.\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711\charrsid1786711 \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 September 2009: 3.5\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 --glyphs have been added to the font to improve support of papyrological transliterations  by adding the precomposed glyphs needed for Arabic. Most of the needed characters were already present, but the new ones are:  U+02BE (modifier letter half ring right, used for Arabic transliteration hams), U+02BF (letter modifier letter half ring left, used for Arabic transliteration yin), U+1E0C (D with dot below) U+1E0D (s with dot below), U+1E20 (G with macron), U+1E21 (g with macron), U+1E62 (S with dot below), U+1E63 (s with dot below), U+1E6C (T with dot below), U+1E6D (t with dot below), U+1E92 (Z with dot below), U+1E93 (z with dot below), precomposed t with diaeresis (U+0074, U+0308). \par --OpenType ligature definitions have been added to reflect the new combinations in the above additions (for instance, g (U+0067) followed by combining macron (U+0304 is replaced in ligature with U+1E21), and for different options for the combining diacritic for Egyptological yod transliteration (the same precomposed ligature result will appear whether i is followed by U+0313 or U+0357 or U+0486).\par --modifications have been made to render the heights of the Greek capital letters more uniform in height. Some differences in height previously in the font were probably the result of accidental processes.\par --modifications have been made to render the lowercase Roman characters more uniform in height (formerly, some lowercase letters were noticeably shorter than others).\par --the numbers 0-9 have been redrawn as modern-style numbers, resting on the baseline and rising to approximately the height of the capitals; the old-style numbers (with some portions descending below the baseline, and the height generally approximately that of lowercase letters) are still present in the font as alternatives, for those who know how to access them.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par \par \par August 2009: 3.45\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 --three glyphs have been added to the font to improve support of symbols needed for New Testament textual studies and editions: U+1D459 (symbol small italic l), U+1D513 (capital P symbol in Fraktur style), U+1D516 (capital S symbol in Fraktur style).\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 January 2009: 3.4\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 --copyright information embedded in the font has been modified to adopt the Open Font License v. 1.1.\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par April 2008: 3.3\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 --corrected height of glyph for lunate sigma to match other lowercase letters better\par --corrected Coptic character U+03E7 to match the common shape of this character better, and made minor adjustments to thickness of strokes of a few other Coptic characters\par --added dotted glyphs for lowercase Greek characters (including those with diacritics), for better placement of underdots in programs capable of using OpenType ligatures\par --added dotted glyphs for lowercase Coptic characters, for better placement of underdots in programs capable of using OpenType ligatures\par --added glyphs for lowercase Coptic characters with combining overstroke (U+0305), for better placement of overstrokes in programs capable of using OpenType ligatures\par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par \par January 2008: 3.2\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 --corrected glyph for alpha with breve and grave, which had been larger than other alphas\par --generated font with OpenType features only, omitting Apple AAT, since the latter features do not work as completely as OpenType and their presence prevents TextEdit and NeoOffice from using the OpenType features; with this change, ligatures now work equally well in Mellel, TextEdit, NeoOffice, and InDesign (and also Word 2008)\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par \par December 2007: 3.1\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 --glyph for middot U+00b7 (now recommended for the Greek high stop or colon) redrawn to match the height of lowercase Greek letters; U+03d5 (phi symbol, not for use as text) redrawn so that vertical rises above loop. \par --added glyphs to cover characters specified in latest quickbeta guide from TLG (various brackets U+2E40-41, U+2E46-49, U+2227-2228\par --added glyphs for pipeline characters for Latin inscriptions (reversed F, I longa, etc., U+a7fb-ff)\par --added glyphs for pipeline characters for Roman weights and measures and coin symbols (U+10190-1019A)\par --added glyphs for pipeline characters for Coptic cryptogrammatic forms and combining ni above, combining spiritus asper and spiritus lenis (U+2CEB-2CF1)\par --added definitions for OpenType and AAT ligatures to allow input of completely decomposed Unicode \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par June 2007: 3.0\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 --added glyphs for pipeline characters Egyptological Alef ([new] capital U+A722, small U+A723 = [PUA] U+EC42), Egyptological Ain ([new] U+A724, U+A725 = [PUA] U+EC43) and forthcoming new half square brackets (U+2E42-2E45). These characters are not yet referenced in the respective inputs.\par --added glyph for pipeline character Greek capital KAI symbol, U+03CF (previously available in PUA at U+E1A6)\par --added epsilon with macron and circumflex (U+EB27), epsilon with macron and smooth and circumflex (U+EB20), epsilon with macron and rough and circumflex (U+EB21), omicron with macron and circumflex (U+EB5A), omicron with macron and smooth and circumflex (U+EB5B), omicron with macron and rough and circumflex (U+EB5C)\par --redrew U+03E2, U+03E3 to make the tail of the character more distinct\par --redrew some glyphs of Ancient Greek Numbers block (U+10140 to U+1018A) to create greater uniformity of width of stems and size of characters\par --added Old Italic block, U+10300 through U+1031E, U+10320 through U+10323\par --revised the OpenType tables to include duplication of definitions with various declarations of language and script. This is needed to make OpenType features work uniformly in OpenType-savvy applications in both OS X Tiger and OS X Leopard. OS X Applications using AAT ligatures instead of OpenType still suffer from a bug affecting a few combinations.\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par August 2006: 2.85/2.86\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 This is mostly a maintenance release containing a very few under-the-hood corrections to v. 2.8, mainly in glyph names (which are not really significant to the end-user).\par --[v. 2.86] added glyphs for Coptic papyrology, U+EC4F coptic iota with diaeresis, U+EC50 coptic ua with diaeresis (these can also be entered decomposed in applications that interpret smart features: U+2C93,U+-308 and U+2CA9,U+0308)\par --added glyphs for U+03D2, U_03D3, U+03D4 \par --added glyphs for pipeline characters U+0370 capital heta (same shape as  U+10142), U+0371 small heta, U+0372 capital archaic sampi (same shape as Private Use Area U+E19C), U+0373 small archaic sampi, U+0376 capital Pamphylian digamma, U+0377 small Pamphylian digamma, which will be in a future version of Unicode}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par \par July 2006: v. 2.8\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 --added Gcaro\u957\'5f U+01E6\par --revised names of some glyphs to match latest recommendation from Adobe for naming glyphs\par --added OpenType ligature features so that the font now works if you input decomposed Unicode sequences; added additional features to Apple MIF table to match OpenType ligatures\par --exchanged the glyphs for U+2E14 and U+2E15 (had previously followed original proposal made by TLG, but am now informed the mistaken swapping of these two glyphs in Unicode 4 will be permanent}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\insrsid1786711 \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par March 2006: v. 2.7\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 --addition of various combining diacritics, some to complement Coptic characters: 030b, 030d, 030e, 030f, 0315, 0316, 0317, 0320, 0324, 0325, 0327, 0329, 032a, 032b, 032c, 0335, 0337, 0351, 0359, 035e, 035f, 037b, 037c, 037d; Claudian letter half H 2c75, 2c76\par --redrew ec46 and ec49 (PUA codepoints for egyptological yod) to make the diacritic match the upper hook of eqyptological alef (closer in form to the combining right half ring above 0359)\par --added ec4a as PUA precomposed form of Coptic u (2ca9) with short cross stroke (0335)}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\insrsid1786711 \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par September 2005: v 2.6\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 --addition of capital Egyptological yod (PUA U+ec49) as precomposed character, and of U+0269, U+033f, U+2053, U+2056 to complete set of characters needed for Coptic\par --made endash, emdash, and quotation dash (U+2013-2015) thicker to match rest of font\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par July 2005: v 2.5\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 --addition of 28 characters, mostly to accommodate the needs of Demotic Egyptian transliteration using Unicode codepoints (roman characters with diacritics) and a few PUA codepoints\par --minor adjustments and corrections to a few characters (e.g. those with made with strokes of too little weight, such as U+27C0, U+27C1)\par --resized slightly and adjusted vertical height of lowercase epsilon, nu, chi, kappa (nu in particular had somehow become too tall and too heavy)}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par \par June 2005: v 2.4\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 --expanded font to include all official Unicode codepoints mentioned in the May 27, 2005, version of TLG Beta Code Quick Reference Guide [EXCEPTIONS: the astrological symbols on pp. 11-12, betacodes #202-250, in the block starting at U+2600].\par --added a few additional symbols closely related to other new symbols (U+2126, 2193, 223C, 271C); added U+0158, omitted by oversight in previous version\par --corrected U+25EF\par --revised paragraphos symbols U+2E0F, 2E10, 2E11 as zero-width characters to be typed at beginning of line, extending slightly into left margin and under the first characters of the line\par --corrected problem with extra height in U+1FB0 (but FontLab may still produce some characters at wrong size)}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par \par [April 2005: very limited test release, never posted for download\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 --added Coptic letters in the Greek and Coptic block (03E2-3EF), imitating the letterforms in the proposals for Unicode 4.1\par --added Coptic letters in the new Coptic block (2C80-2CFF), imitating the letterforms in the proposals for Unicode 4.1}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\insrsid1786711 ]}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par April 2005: v 2.3\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 --adjusted vertical placement of upper half brackets (U+2308, U+2309) and of square bracket\par --corrected orientation of U+0312\par --corrected shape of U+0309\par --extended length of combining overscore (U+0305); renamed U+00af as "macron" and U+02c9 as "macron2"}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par \par March 2005: v. 2.2\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 --the character U+0123 (gcommaaccent) was corrected (the accent had been turned the wrong way)\par --various corrections were made to the character outlines (removal of redundant nodes and the like)\par --minor modifications were made to the spacing of characters, and greater consistency was sought for spacing of characters in same class\par --combined characters that had accidentally been left composed in the font were decomposed to insure sizes of characters in same class were uniform\par --newly generated font apparently fixes a problem that made some sizes of the previous version overlap Greek characters in Windows applications}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par \par January 2005: v. 2.1\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 --representation of U+2058 (four dot punctuation) revised to match picture in Unicode 4.1 chart (four dots form a diamond, not a square).\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par \par September 2004: v2.0\par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 \par --adjustment of height specifications of the font to try to allow correct display of capitals with macron, breve, or diaeresis above in Microsoft Word 2004 for Mac OS X. It is still necessary for the user to manually set the line-spacing (in Format:Paragraph...) to At least: [2 pts larger than the size of the font]. This adjustment did correct a fault in the font that made it unusable in BBEdit 7.x, where earlier versions were displayed with too little line height, cutting off the bottom of the glyphs; and improved rendering in Windows.\par --agreed on new PUA assignments for precomposed glyphs for alpha, iota, and upsilon with breve and macron and other diacritics (codepoints will be shared with ALPHABETUM font of Juan-Jos\u233\'8e Marcos and other fonts).\par --added precomposed glyphs and assigned PUA codepoints in agreement with scheme already used by Ralph Hancock and others (omicron or epsilon with macron and other diacritics, etc.).\par --changed capital vowels with iota adscript to show iota at regular size; retained alternative versions with shrunken iota (and older Unicode versions with subscript iota under capitals) in PUA (starting at EC20) for anyone who really wants those glyphs.\par --a number of characters with overlapping contours corrected by merging contours\par --roman characters with ogonek revised for correct placement of ogonek\par --various roman characters and symbols improved in spacing or design in response to suggestions}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 --added left and right angle brackets 2329 and 232a as distinct from greater than and lesser than signs\par --additional characters from TLG proposals (approved by Unicode, but still in process of ISO approval): \par [for the following codepoints see information at http://www.unicode.org/alloc/Pipeline.html as well as the information at the TLG website about unicode proposals and betacode to Unicode equivalences]\par 0359 combining asterisk below\par 035c combining double breve below (papyrological hyphen)\par 03f4 capital theta symbol\par 03f5 lunate epsilon symbol\par 03f6 reversed lunate epsilon symbol\par 03fc rho with stroke symbol\par 03fd-03ff antisigma, sigma dotted, antisigma dotted\par 1dc0-1dc1 dotted grave and acute (combining)\par 2058-2059 four and five dot punctuation\par 205a, 205b, 205c, 205d, 205e two dot punctuation,four dot mark,  dotted cross, tricolon, four dots verticaL\par 23d1-23d9 metrical symbols (along with TLG metrical symbols in other ranges)\par 27co-27c1 misc. mathematical symbols\par 2e00-2e0c New Testament editorial characters (and 2e0d as mirror of 2e0c)\par 2e0e-2e16 supplemental punctuation including coronis, paragraphos, etc.\par 10140-10174 ancient Greek acrophonic numerals\par 10175-10189 ancient Greek papyrological numerals\par 1018a Greek zero sign\par 1d200-1d245 archaic Greek musical notation\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 \par December 2003: v1.9\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 \par --The encoding of the double brackets and of the half brackets has been corrected. The former are now U+27e6 and U+27e7 (mathematical) instead of U+301a and U+301b (CJK). The latter are now U+230a, U+230b, U+2308, U+2309 instead of U+231e, U+231f, U+231c (U+2309 has been newly added for completeness). The corrected encodings are those recommended by TLG.\par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 August 2003: v1.85\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 \par --characters \u339\'cf \u230\'be \u248\'bf of the roman portion of the font repaired (these had been out of proportion to other lowercase letters).\par \par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 May 2003: v1.8\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 \par --precomposed glyphs added to facilitate display of macron or circumflex or circumflex plus either breathing over epsilon and omicron\par --ligature definitions added to correspond to the added glyphs (again this depends on MIF files supported only by TextEdit)\par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 March 2003\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 \par --ligature definitions adjusted to allow correct display of macron or breve with diacritics in sizes 12 and below (Dec 2002 version showed the ligatures only in size 13 and higher)\par \par --spacing of glyphs based on omega regularized (some had insufficient width on right and crashed slightly with the following character)\par \par \par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 December 14, 2002: v. 1.55}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 \par \par --uppercase lunate sigma moved to 03f9, the proposed location (had been 03f4, now officially assigned to a different glyph)\par \par --archaic koppa now officially assigned to 03d9\par \par --uppercase archaic koppa added at 03d8\par \par --glyph for 0314 (equivalent to rough breathing with no space) corrected (was turned wrong way)\par \par --archaic san and San added at 03fb and 03fa\par \par --Bactrian sho and Sho added at 03f8 and 03f7\par \par --glyphs added for alpha, iota, or upsilon with macron or breve and other diacritics, with use of Apple-supported MIF files (which work only in TextEdit)\par \par --alternate form of pi (03d6) corrected (had been incompletely drawn and was like omega)\par \par --iota subscript on capital vowels moved to adscript position (as in Unicode 3)\par \par --corrections to included non-Greek glyphs that were incomplete or erroneous:\par - Scaron (U+0160): caron missing\par - scaron (U+0161): caron missing\par - Aring (U+00C5): ring missing\par - Yacute (U+00DD): acute missing\par - aring (U+00E5): ring missing\par - Ebreve (U+0114): E missing\par - Ecaron (U+011A): E missing\par - Ibreve (U+012C): macron instead of a breve over the I\par - Nacute (U+0143): acute too far to the right\par - nacute (U+0144): acute too far to the right\par - Zacute (U+0179): acute too far to the right\par - zacute (U+017A): acute too far to the right\par - Edotaccent (U+0116): E missing.\par - ring (combining) added (U+030A)\par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 August 2002}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\insrsid1786711 \par New Athena Unicode created by additions and revisions to Athena Unicode, a font originated by Jeffrey Rusten (with the Greek characters taken from his GreekKeys Athenian font) and corrected by Ralph Hancock.\par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 V. Acknowledgments\par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af5 \ltrch\fcs0 \f5\fs28\insrsid1786711 New Athena Unicode is based on Athena Roman, a Unicode font created by Jeffrey Rusten including the polytonic Greek glyphs from the Athenian font he designed ca. 1990 based on various upright Greek fonts. Ralph Hancock made a number of corrections and improvements to Athena Roman. After I took over support of GreekKeys for the American Philological Association in 2001, I also began development of New Athena Unicode in order to support the use of polytonic Unicode Greek on the WWW. Like all scholars of Greek, I am indebted to the staff of the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae and its Director Maria Pantelia, who have shepherded many additional symbols needed by Hellenists through the process of incorporation into the Unicode Standard (versions 4.0 and later). New Athena Unicode therefore contains all the symbols previously available in the non-standard-encoded SymbolAthenian font (part of the traditional GreekKeys package).\par \par During work on various versions, advice and help has been generously provided by members of Apple Computer's Font Group (Deborah Goldsmith, Lee Collins, Peter Lofting), Maria Pantelia, Nick Nicholas, and Richard Peevers of TLG, Ralph Hancock (author of the Antioch input schemes for Windows), Juan-Jos\u233\'8e Marcos (author of the ALPHABETUM font), and Deborah Anderson of the Script Encoding Initiative. Work on this font could not have been completed without FontLab 4.5 and 4.6 and 5.x for Mac OS X, BBEdit 7.x and 8.x from BareBones Software, and Apple FontToolsX. \par \par I am not a professional font designer, and most of my computer knowledge is at the level of the minimum needed to move forward with what I want to accomplish. There are various imperfections in the font, and compromises have been made in the interest of practicality (especially in the use of Private Use Area [=PUA] encoding) and inclusiveness (some glyphs are included whose use I would not myself endorse). For these shortcomings and other errors that may be detected, the responsibility is mine.\par \par Donald Mastronarde\par djmastronarde@berkeley.edu\par http://ucbclassics.dreamhosters.com/djm/\par }{\*\themedata 504b0304140006000800000021001b898e1bfe0000001c020000130000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6cac91cf6ac3300cc6ef83bd83f175244e77186324e961ed6efb73e81e40384a6296c8c6564bfbf653d216c62885c12e0659d2f7fd2495cbfd38a81dc6e43c557a91175a2159df38ea2afdb979c91eb54a0cd4c0e0092b7dc0a497f5ed4db939044c4aba2955ba670e4fc624dbe30829f7014932ad8f23b084b13301ec177468ee8be2c1584f8cc4194f1aba2e57d8c27660b5decbf79144dab57a3ed64d5695861006678105d44c595397ef021e5d83ea0322bfc128558605017fbe8bfcbad68e9a5fc0996f5b67b1f1763b0a663e4bdefdc5f31548868dffe37c123b035c5856c4215dd9d685094fe7c8a573de68ea5d48670733dfb6fe060000ffff0300504b030414000600080000002100a5d6a7e7c0000000360100000b0000005f72656c732f2e72656c73848fcf6ac3300c87ef85bd83d17d51d2c31825762fa590432fa37d00e1287f68221bdb1bebdb4fc7060abb0884a4eff7a93dfeae8bf9e194e720169aaa06c3e2433fcb68e1763dbf7f82c985a4a725085b787086a37bdbb55fbc50d1a33ccd311ba548b63095120f88d94fbc52ae4264d1c910d24a45db3462247fa791715fd71f989e19e0364cd3f51652d73760ae8fa8c9ffb3c330cc9e4fc17faf2ce545046e37944c69e462a1a82fe353bd90a865aad41ed0b5b8f9d6fd010000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c0000007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c0ccc4d0ac3201040e17da17790d93763bb284562b2cbaebbf600439c1a41c7a0d29fdbd7e5e38337cedf14d59b4b0d592c9c070d8a65cd2e88b7f07c2ca71ba8da481cc52c6ce1c715e6e97818c9b48d13df49c873517d23d59085adb5dd20d6b52bd521ef2cdd5eb9246a3d8b4757e8d3f729e245eb2b260a0238fd010000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021009d5c8bbe10070000871d0000160000007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d65312e786d6cec594f6f1b4514bf23f11d467b6f13274e9a4475aad8b109b469a3d82dea71bc3bf64e33bbb39a1927f10db547242444411ca8c48d03022ab51297f269024550a47e05deccecae77e271e39400153487d63bfb7b6fdefbbd3ff367af5e3b4e183a2442529e3682dae5c5009134e4114d878de076af73692d4052e134c28ca7a4118c890cae6dbefbce55bca162921004f2a9dcc08d20562adb585890210c63799967248577032e12ace0510c1722818f406fc2169616175717124cd300a53801b5b706031a12d4d32a83cd42799bc163aaa41e0899e86ad5c49130d8e8a0a611722c5b4ca043cc1a01cc13f1a31e39560162582a78d10816cd5fb0b07975016fe4424ccd90adc875cc5f2e970b44074b664e31ec9793d63af5f52bdba57e03606a1ad76eb75bed5aa9cf00701882a7d696aace7a67add62c745640f6e7b4eed6e2ca62ddc557f42f4fd9bcde6c3657d6735bac5203b23feb53f8b5c5d5fad6928337208b5f99c2d79b5badd6aa8337208b5f9dc277aeacafd65dbc01c58ca60753681dd04e27d75e42069ced78e16b005f5bcce113146443995d7a8a014fd5ac5c4bf03d2e3a00d04086154d911a67648043c8e21666b42fa89e006f105c796387423935a4e742321434538de0830c43454cf4bd7cf6ddcb674fd0c9fda727f77f3c79f0e0e4fe0f569123b583d36155eac5379ffef1e823f4fb93af5f3cfcdc8f9755fc2fdf7ffcf34f9ff981503e13739e7ff1f8d7a78f9f7ff9c96fdf3ef4c0b704ee57e13d9a10896e9223b4cf1370ccb0e25a4efae27c12bd18d3aac4563a9438c57a168ffeb68a1df4cd3166d8836b1297c13b02da870ff8dee89e637037162395c7dbf1ec7a9c38c05dce59930b2f0bd7f55c159a7ba374e89f5c8caab87d8c0f7d73b770eac4b73dcaa06f529fca564c1c33f7184e151e929428a4dff103423c7cdda5d4e1759786824b3e50e82e454d4cbd94f468dfc9a689d00e4d202e639f81106f879bdd3ba8c999cfeb6d72e822a12a30f318df23cca1f13d3c5238f1a9ece1845509bf8155ec33b23b166115d7960a223d248ca37644a4f4c9dc12e06f25e8d7a175f8c3becbc6898b148a1ef874dec09c5791dbfca015e324f361bb348dabd8f7e501a428467b5cf9e0bbdcad10fd0c71c0e9cc70dfa1c409f7d9dde0361d3a264d1244bf19091d4b68d54e074e68faaa769c4037ceddb9b8760c0df0f9578f3c99f5a636e22d20c157093ba7daef2cdce9a6dbe222a26f7ecfddc6a3748f409a4f2f3c6f5beedb961bfce75beeac7a9eb7d14e7a2bb45dbdbdb19b62b3454e66ee900794b1ae1a3372439a4db2847522eac0a09633a743529e98b2187ee67dddc10d0536324870f521557137c6196cb06b81563294b9eaa144199770b033c35edd1a0f9b74658f852bfac060fb81c46a97477678590f17e782528d596d86e6f0594cb4ac15cc3bd9f2955c29b8fd3a93d5b45173cf5633a69956e7cc56ba0c319c760d064b3661038260db022cafc2f95c4f0d0713cc48a479b76b6f11161385bf2744b9d7d6911847c486c819aeb05933b12b52c85c10404a7942773e364bd680b4b38d3069313b7fe624b95030215997dda96a6269b5b6588a8e1ac1facad24a80429c3582011c49e1679241d0a4deb26136847b9d50099bb567d6a229d289c7ebfeacaac12dc38c8271ca3813526d6319db189a5779a858aa67b2f62fadd475b25d8c0336515fc38ae53548917fcd0a08b51b5a3218905055835d19d1dcd9c7bc13f29122a21b4747a8cf46621f43f88153ed4f4425dc2c9882d60f700da6d936afdcde9a779aeae593c1d971ccb218e7dd525fa3141567e1a6de4a1bcc53c53cf0cd6bbb71eefcaee88abf2857aa69fc3f73452f0770d05f8e740442b8851518e97a6d045ca8984317ca621a7604acfba67740b6c0552abc06f2e12ed8fc2fc8a1fedfd69cd561ca1ace6b6a9f0e91a0b09ca85810b2076dc964df19ca6af9d26355b25c91c9a88ab932b366f7c921613ddd0357750f0e500ca96eba49de060cee74feb9cf7905f5877a8f52ad37a787944ba7ad817f7ae3628b199c3ab597d0f95bf05f9ae859fdacbc112fd6c8aa23fac56497542faac259fcd6d7f3a95ed3847916e0ca5a6b3bd694c74b2b857110c5698f61b0dccf64705d83f43fb0fe511132fb61412fa83dbe0fbd15c17702cb1f82acbea4bb1a64906e90f6571ff63d76d026935665a9cd773e9ab562b1bee08d6a39ef29b2b565f3c4fb9c64979b28773aa7162f92ec9c61876b3b36936a88ece91285a141710e3181315fa4aa1f8d78ff1e047a1baee747cc7e4692193c993ac8f684c9ae3e8fc6f94f26ed826bb34e9f613492a5fb648068745c9c3f4a266c09d94f19c516d9a0b5984eb45270d97768700573bc16b5ab6529bc74b67029616686965d0a9b1b329f02f89095376e7db403bc6db2d66b5d5c05532cfd2b94cd61bc9f32efc9675ecaec41f195817a0dcad4f1ab29cb9902f2a6130f3e450a0c4793aee9bfb0e8d84c3729bbf927000000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000001b010000270000007468656d652f7468656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73848f4d0ac2301484f78277086f6fd3ba109126dd88d0add40384e4350d363f2451eced0dae2c082e8761be9969bb979dc9136332de3168aa1a083ae995719ac16db8ec8e4052164e89d93b64b060828e6f37ed1567914b284d262452282e3198720e274a939cd08a54f980ae38a38f56e422a3a641c8bbd048f7757da0f19b017cc524bd62107bd5001996509affb3fd381a89672f1f165dfe514173d9850528a2c6cce0239baa4c04ca5bbabac4df000000ffff0300504b01022d00140006000800000021001b898e1bfe0000001c0200001300000000000000000000000000000000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6c504b01022d0014000600080000002100a5d6a7e7c0000000360100000b000000000000000000000000002f0100005f72656c732f2e72656c73504b01022d00140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c00000000000000000000000000180200007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c504b01022d00140006000800000021009d5c8bbe10070000871d00001600000000000000000000000000d50200007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d65312e786d6c504b01022d00140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000001b0100002700000000000000000000000000190a00007468656d652f7468656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73504b050600000000050005005d010000140b00000000}{\*\colorschememapping 3c3f786d6c2076657273696f6e3d22312e302220656e636f64696e673d225554462d3822207374616e64616c6f6e653d22796573223f3e0d0a3c613a636c724d617020786d6c6e733a613d22687474703a2f2f736368656d61732e6f70656e786d6c666f726d6174732e6f72672f64726177696e676d6c2f323030362f6d61696e22206267313d226c743122207478313d22646b3122206267323d226c743222207478323d22646b322220616363656e74313d22616363656e74312220616363656e74323d22616363656e74322220616363656e74333d22616363656e74332220616363656e74343d22616363656e74342220616363656e74353d22616363656e74352220616363656e74363d22616363656e74362220686c696e6b3d22686c696e6b2220666f6c486c696e6b3d22666f6c486c696e6b222f3e}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax276\lsdlockeddef0\lsdsemihiddendef1\lsdunhideuseddef1\lsdqformatdef0\lsdprioritydef99{\lsdlockedexcept \lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority0 \lsdlocked0 Normal;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 1;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 2;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 3;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 4;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 5;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 6;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 7;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 8;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 9;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 1;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 2;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 3;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 4;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 5;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 6;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 7;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 8;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 9;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority35 \lsdlocked0 caption;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority10 \lsdlocked0 Title;\lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 Default Paragraph Font;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority11 \lsdlocked0 Subtitle;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority22 \lsdlocked0 Strong;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority20 \lsdlocked0 Emphasis;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority59 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid;\lsdunhideused0 \lsdlocked0 Placeholder Text;\lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 No Spacing;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 1;\lsdunhideused0 \lsdlocked0 Revision;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority34 \lsdlocked0 List Paragraph;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority29 \lsdlocked0 Quote;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority30 \lsdlocked0 Intense Quote;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority19 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Emphasis;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority21 \lsdlocked0 Intense Emphasis;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority31 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Reference;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority32 \lsdlocked0 Intense Reference;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority33 \lsdlocked0 Book Title;\lsdpriority37 \lsdlocked0 Bibliography;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 TOC Heading;}}{\*\datastore 010001000200000010000000584d4c2e5341585265616465722e3500000000000000000000060000d0cf11e0a1b11ae1000000000000000000000000000000003e000300feff090006000000000000000000000001000000010000000000000000100000feffffff00000000feffffff0000000000000000fffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffdfffffffeffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff5200000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000002000500ffffffffffffffffffffffffec69d9888b8b3d4c859eaf6cd158be0f000000000000000000000000dae595658c3cca01feffffff00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000100010000000000}}